---
title: Juggling between things
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

For the past few months I have been jumping from one thing to another, very often. I remember when this had happened previously in my second year of college. Though that was partially deliberate in order to experiment and choose between hobbies to pursue, the ever evolving choices have always been a problem for me. I have had difficulty figuring my way out of this maze, where everything seems tempting and I end up doing nothing. So I decided to write this down, not planned as such, but writing helps organise my thoughts; and coincidentally all such writings are post midnight, when everyone's asleep and my nocturnal mind is wide awake.

Right now I have one earphone on playing some ambient songs, and the other ear open. Anyways, in the previous few months I have been deciding and abandoning things. It started with me wanting to learn computer vision, I believe. I always had loved building stuff that played around with images or video. Computer vision seemed an interesting subject, and it still is. I started reading a few articles and referring university course curriculum to study computer vision. All of the materials started with basic image processing. In order to solidify my venture, I enrolled into a Coursera course on vision, taught by professors from SUNY Bufallo.

It started well, and I was parallely referring UCF's YouTube lectures. Gradually as I went ahead, the Coursera course started to seem very boring, the professors only read out some stuff in a monotonous way and I was majorly reading things on my own from a separate PDF from UCF's course website. Things started falling off and slowly I stopped studying. This was also because I did not have a proper schedule for completing things, as I had left the Coursera course. YouTube lectures are good but are prone to a lot of distraction due to the recommended videos and the new tab only a click away. Post this I wavered around various other vision courses from GATech and Stanford. Sometime in the middle I also had started a graphics course, and a buildyourownX project. I knew I was interested in this particular area of CS, but did not make a structured effort to learn it.

I feel really bad at the amount of uncertainity I had over what to learn. _I wished to learn eveything._ I realised that I was doing this, and searched for a few subreddits for solutions. There were people who felt the same way at some point of their life, they wished to learn everything. This greed for knowledge is more bad than good. Now, I have stopped all those courses and readings and hit a refresh. I, for a long time, have been scraping the surface of CS and have been moving from one thing to other on the top. I never got a chance to study basic CS as my bachelors was in EEE.
